<<<<<<< HEAD
# CRUD_Messages
Created a CRUD Operations for messages on ICP BlockChain using Rust Lang.
=======
# `crud_messages`

Welcome to your new `crud_messages` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `crud_messages`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Rust Canister Development Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/rust/)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/candid/)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd crud_messages/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

## Once you have done the deployment then you move to your code editior and open the terminal.

### Run the following commands to check the All CRUD Operations.

#### 1. Create Messages:
```
  dfx canister call crud_messages_backend create_message '("Hello World!", null)'
```
#### 2. Read & Show Messages:
```
 dfx canister call crud_messages_backend get_message '(1 : nat64)'
```
#### 3. Update Messages:
```
   dfx canister call crud_messages_backend update_message '(1 : nat64, "Hello, Quad B Tech")'
```
#### 4. Delete Messages:
```
  dfx canister call crud_messages_backend delete_message '(1 : nat64)'
```
#### All Other function is on developing phase..

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
>>>>>>> a1d13c6 (I have done Create, Read, Update & Delete Messages Functionality Done)
